---
theme: jekyll-theme-tactile
title: "Essays"
permalink: /essays/
description: "What follows is a selection of my essays. 
Constructive feedback is always appreciated! 
---
# The Rise of Zoonotic Diseases
<details>
	<summary></summary>
With the current epidemic of monkeypox and the lasting effects of the COVID-19 Pandemic, it is evident that the prevalence of zoonotic diseases – those that jump from animals to humans - has increased in recent decades. Globalization and urbanization help spread these diseases worldwide, as our greater connectivity enables a disease to infect more people, but the emergence of these diseases is tied to two issues. First, the close-proximity of farmers to large populations of single-species livestock increases the chance that diseases will jump from animals to humans. Second, our current system of agriculture suffers from a distinct lack of biodiversity buffering. <br/><br/>

Biodiversity buffering occurs when diverse plant, animal, and bacterial communities contribute to a healthier, more resilient ecosystem. The same concept is in personal finance, where individual stocks might skyrocket or tank, but having a diverse selection across different sectors ensures that you’ll be protected from market swings. In other words, don’t put all your eggs in one basket. The same is true for our communities, where having healthy plant, animal, and soil populations contributes to the productivity and well-being of the whole ecosystem.  <br/><br/>

As our closest industry to the natural world, agriculture needs biodiversity buffering. Reliant on healthy air, water, and soil, farms are the most vulnerable to changing natural conditions and disease outbreaks. Farmers live at the fine line between fertility and famine, with the health of the ecosystem meaning the difference between success and starvation. Degraded ecosystems - those without biodiversity buffering- are at the highest risk of collapse when faced with uncertain seasonal patterns, pollution, and emerging diseases. With their proximity to the natural world, farms reflect the health of the whole ecosystem, thriving in rich environments and collapsing in depleted ones. As the interface between the human and natural world, farms are the most vulnerable targets for zoonotic diseases, but also our greatest safeguards. <br/><br/>

Thankfully, we now know ways to protect against zoonotic diseases. Regenerative farming – actions that restore and maintain the health of soil and plant communities while fostering diverse livestock – creates the conditions for biodiversity buffering, blocking the emergence of zoonotic diseases. Best of all, they allow farmers to remain productive and competitive with less resources. Regenerative farming practices include cover crops, crop rotations, and agrivoltaics - pairing solar panels with farming for agricultural and energy productivity. Regenerative farms use less pesticides, herbicides, fertilizer, and water; all while producing greater, nutrient-rich, yields. To address air and water pollution, agribusiness giants pay farmers who use regenerative practices to catch CO2 in carbon-rich soils. In other words, regenerative farming simultaneously allows farmers to remain productive and profitable, all while using biodiversity buffering to safeguard our communities. <br/><br/>

As we move beyond the COVID-19 pandemic, there is a societal realization that our current practices of agriculture must be revamped to meet growing demand. Biodiversity buffering is the central step in this process, where natural ecosystems protect human communities through diversity. Regenerative agriculture allows farmers to secure this protection, all while meeting growing demand, saving costs, and working to prevent future pandemics. From the small-scale urban garden to the breadbaskets that stock our supermarkets, regenerative farming is the future of agriculture, our first line of defense and greatest ally against the rise of zoonotic diseases. 

</details>
	
# Art for Biology
<details>
  	<summary></summary>
	
Art is a pivotal component of science. The covers of Nature and Science frequently showcase beautiful images, from photo-realistic cellular renders, sweeping landscapes, swirling patterns, and glowing biomolecules. Yet while most scientists labor to include some particularly illustrative figures in their paper, they rarely engage in acts of artistic creation for their own right. Largely gone are the days of Ramón y Cajal’s beautiful sketches of dendritic arbors or the mesmerizingly fantastic botanical works of Ernst Haeckel. Yet beyond their artistic beauty, these works provide an additional benefit: they force the scientist to focus on the minutiae, the tiny details that simultaneously bring a creation to life and trigger a cascade of wonder. For it is these tiny details where new science is born, where questions are pondered, where cutting edge techniques and technologies are developed. Conventional science has not forgotten it’s fascination, but it’s so-often buried within layers and layers of formality that it becomes easy to miss. In the ever-increasing age of overworked, publish-or-perish churning of quantity over quality, perhaps it’s time for us all to take a moment, pick up a pencil, and rediscover that wonder.
	
</details>	

# Changing Systems
<details>
	<summary></summary>
	
One of the defining challenges of the 21st century is how, as aptly put, to change the plane while flying it. In fact, this challenge resembles more than merely altering our existing schematics but switching aircraft design entirely. In other words, how to change a plane to a helicopter mid-flight (the helicopter analogy arises from Herman Daly, who likened transitioning from a growth-focused to steady-state economy as transitioning from a plane - which must always move forwards, lest it fall out of the sky – to a helicopter - which can hover like a hummingbird, moving backwards and forwards for the comfort and safety of its passengers)  <br/><br/>

So how do you engineer a plane into a helicopter? You send people out on the wings, tethered to the fuselage to make inflight-repairs and adaptions. You install a rotor on top, angling it so it doesn’t get ripped off at the speeds you’re traveling. You make your way to the back and install a second rotor on the tail, once again angled away from the wind. Then, you must cross the point of no return. You cannot remain within a mutant configuration of helicopter and plane forever (Or perhaps you can, if multi-functionality is pre-built into the structure, with the ability to shift between modes when needed), for once you turn off and remove the engines, the plane slowly starts to fall, gliding lower and lower. As this happens, it must be all hands-on deck. The motors must be hooked up to the rotors, and you must wait until the right speed to turn them on. Too early, and the blades could get ripped off, too late and you risk crashing.  <br/><br/>

The difficulty, however, comes not from the repairs themselves. You have top-notch engineers aboard, who have extensively modelled the transition and know the risks well. Instead, your challenge is knowing when to implement the changes. You hope you can remain a plane for as long as possible, soaring forward with no regard for what the future may bring. And yet there is a nagging notion you have that if you continue to fly without repairs it will inevitably end in catastrophe. The repairs are costly and risky, and you know there’s a slight chance that attempting to do so will cause the plane to plummet into a free-fall. The engineers say they are almost certain in their models, both in the plane’s dangerous destination and the repairs that are needed, but you know that if you wait these models, predictions, techniques, and technologies may continue to improve. Public opinion in the plane is likewise divided. Some believe that minor alterations are all that are needed, maybe comfier seats for the passengers or airfare reimburses, while others reason that we should be trying to shift into a hot air balloon. The airline dislikes any of these changes, fearing an impact on profitability, and will try its hardest to keep the plane as it is until government, the market, or the public demands it.  <br/><br/>

So, what do you do? Do you give the order to begin alterations, knowing that doing so will garner the airline’s animosity and will be too little for some passengers but too much for others? Do you embrace the smaller risk of present collapse to stave off an increasingly certain future one? How long can you keep flying before you must reach a decision? With every passing moment your timeline is shorter, your alterations more extensive, and the risks greater. Increasingly soon, you must decide.  <br/><br/>

	</details>


# A Vision for the Future
<details>
	<summary></summary>
	       
I open my eyes. Light floods my room, tinged with the green of photosynthesis surrounding me. I hear running water, flowing through the aquaponics system, nourishing the flora and fauna. Well-lit by natural light and strategically placed mirrors, electric lighting is only needed late into the evening, as the day winds to a close. The house is kept naturally cool, with passive cooling and insulation. I venture outside, greeting the day, the animals, and the plants. The garden is growing spectacularly, the food crops are strong, tall, and healthy. The flowers buzz with the hum of a thousand pollinators, birds swoop in and out, squirrels nibble on nuts and rabbits chew on clover. A lone deer stands down the hill, helping himself to some fresh shoots. Most of my food I get from the market, so I don’t mind feeding the ecosystem with the rest. I greet the pigs, nuzzling in the compost for an uneaten peel or adventurous mushroom. Shaded by the tall oaks, the pigs are content in the shade, but might venture out into the warm meadow soon. I follow the well-worn dirt path to the coop, where a host of chickens are clucking contently, pecking at feed, hoping to snag a worm for breakfast. I dutifully collect a few of the eggs laid overnight, closing the coop as I leave. I venture over to the pond, where the ducks and geese loudly greet their own morning. I wave at the neighbors situated around the same pond, a treasure of the commons. I pick a particularly ripe apple from a tree, snag a large leaf of lettuce, cut some onion greens, pick up two healthy mushroom heads, and go back inside. Inside, I flip on the electric stove, place a pan over it, drizzle in some olive oil, and fry the onion greens and mushrooms before cracking in the eggs. I grab a slice of bread from the fridge, toast it, make a bed of the lettuce, and layer in the onions, mushrooms, and some tomato slices. There are a few small tomatoes growing in the garden, but the ones from the market are large and perfectly ripe, great for slices on toast. I layer the eggs on top, take a deep inhale, and dig in.  <br/><br/>

When I’m finished, I place the plates in a basket, and once that’s full I’ll bring it over to the fish tank, where the minnows will happily eat the scraps while the moving water cleans off food stains. The nutrient-rich water from around the house will flow to eager plants, who will clean, purify, and send it recycled back into the house. The system is mostly a closed loop, but the small amount that is lost to evaporation or waste is easily topped up by sub-surface pumps, carefully designed to deplete the water table no faster than it is replenished. Our grid-scale batteries are often hydrogen-based, so as we consume more energy we release more water vapor, which can help increase the moisture in the air during dry days or weeks. These batteries are most appreciated during the particularly humid months, as they operate as giant dehumidifiers, converting water into its constituent gases for later power use. The rest of our energy infrastructure is renewables, with the solar-wind installations maximizing power generation per square foot while deep, underground geothermal plants and modular nuclear reactors provide reliable power generation during periods of intermittency. I bike to the electric light rail terminal, where regular rides take me into the city center. As I journey, I pass large expanses of green space, wooded, meadowed, and brush, punctuated by the brilliant blue of rivers, lakes, ponds, and creeks. Within and among these expanses are the punctuated whites of urban dwellings, which have engineered walls to slowly change to black over the course of the year, cooling in the summer and heating in the winter. Particularly large complexes have a dazzling array of installations on their roofs, from solar panels to small neighborhood parks for walking pets, to urban gardens. I even spy a couple basketball courts, complete with extra-high nets to catch any wandering shots. The trees filling these complexes occasionally have the stray basketball in them, but they don’t seem too worse for wear. The road is full, but the rail is in a lane of its own. Next to it, hundreds of passerby bike, scooter, walk, run, stroll, and chat. The road is mostly shaded, save for the rail lane, which keeps a solar panel on its roof to gain some extra charge. Beneath the rail is a sea of cover crops, which happily drink up the sun and water when the rail isn’t travelling over them. The rail stops at several centers, connecting passerby to the number of bus terminals that fill out the city or the metro stations which fill out the region. Urban dwellings are intermixed with community spaces, shopping districts, restaurants, and parks, creating rich living spaces where communities and individuals can thrive. Throughout it all is the flourishing of nature, with rabbits and deer happily munching on a town green, birds perched on the multitude of trees that cover the ground and building tops, squirrels and chipmunks running among trees and wildlife bridges, insects flitting in and out of flower cover, fish and turtles swimming through the lakes and rivers, lizards, newts, and water snakes sneaking between bodies of water through the frequent culverts, and the sounds of countless others rising through the green and blue. The whole world is alive, buzzing and singing, walking and talking, living and thriving.  <br/><br/>

I make it to the city center. Here, the buildings run tall, stretching into the clouds. Yet nature still has a rich handhold here, with vines crawling up and down the buildings, shrubs spilling over balconies, bird nests hidden in protected overhangs, and flower gardens peeking out the sides. In fact, a whole community of tree-dwelling mammals, including several monkeys, have taken up residence in the towers, where rope bridges and vine carpets connect the rooftops and outcroppings provide shelter and safety. For the less agile of us, bridges and walkways connect the buildings, and workers and residents navigate vertically and horizontally between floors, with children racing each other through different combinations of bridges and stairwells to try and reach their desired destination first. The urban jungle has taken on a different meaning. Like the suburbs, the skyscrapers are highly mixed-use, with restaurant districts coexisting with apartments, massage parlors nestled next to office spaces. The skyscrapers, while colossal in size, are some of the least energy-hungry constructions in the region, since translucent solar panels embedded within the glass provide continual power throughout the day, elevators generate power whenever they are lowered, and massive batteries under the buildings allow for a constant demand. The depth of the batteries keeps them cool without any heating required, and during winter the thermal exhaust is redirected into the vents, providing free heating to the apartments and stores. The building can switch between high-power shading and low-power illumination, as the solar panel windows adjust their tint to absorb more sun or let in more light. Unlike in the suburbs, the waste from the towers is not recycled on site. Instead, conduits carry the waste and grey water to a massive biotreatment plant outside the city, which provides a steady stream of nutrients for the permaculture and vertical farms that support the entire region. Solid waste is used to grow fungi, while liquid waste is used as fertilizer for crops. Excess rainwater on the streets is directed into bioswales which filter the water and provide lush, city-level vegetation for passerby to enjoy. Many of the ground trees and shrubs are fruiting, so passerby can pluck an apple or raspberry during season, although most of the easy-to-reach ones have already been snatched by hungry humans or adventurous squirrels. The towers are setting up for a parade, this one for Vesak day. Soon the streets will be full of light and sound and music, and the wildlife will grumpily stay clear for a night or two, before returning when things quite down. The city is richly multicultural, but cultural groups have naturally clustered together in areas throughout the city, so festivities are often localized to a couple streets of joyous celebration at a time. Sometimes whole skyscrapers reflect a cultural identity, making for wonderful culinary or experiential tours. There are a few municipality-wide celebrations that occur each year, but countless cultural celebrations to be found, especially if one knows where to look. For the nature-goer large expanses of greenery are not hard to find, with the countless small islands of biodiversity spotted throughout the streets, the flourishing rooftop gardens, and several large parks throughout the city, which offer dual experiences of recreation and exploration. Within these parks there are community green spaces, where most nights some thespian organization is putting on a show. The parks also hold spots of untamed natural beauty, where trails percolate through spots of cool, forested old growth, lush meadows, and rich shrubland. Standing within these spots one can scarcely imagine that it is located right within the heart of the city, save for the tall, greened skyscrapers that occasionally sneak into one’s view within a clearing.  <br/><br/>

As I travel throughout the city, taking in the sounds and sites, I come across my building. I venture in, working my way through the cool, spacious lobby and climbing the stairs to my floor. I usually work anywhere from 3-6 days per week and have a great deal of flexibility whether I want to do my work online or in the office. My average week is four days, which gives me enough time to get what I want done, but also to have days to explore my interests at home, where I work in my garden, paint, draw, play music, hike, bike, or merely sit by the lakeside. Today I’ve come in to experience the city, but also to see my colleagues. Universal basic income and increasing technological progress have enabled work to become optional for achieving a good standard of living, but most people still work towards what they feel passionate about. With the alleviation from the need to work to survive, creative productivity has flourished, and the office is full of the results of people’s passions: knitted garments, homemade desks, still-life paintings, a culinary masterpiece sitting in Tupperware containers within a lunch bag. If something in the office breaks, there’s almost always someone around who is passionately willing to fix it for free, and the office will return the favor by our own small gifts, baking them a home-cooked lunch, knitting a cozy winter beanie, offering to pet sit for a few days, or giving them a gift card to a new restaurant in the building.  <br/><br/>

I settle down at my desk, which in this office range from standing to treadmill to beanbag. My work involves coordinating with stakeholders across the world to develop sustainable, actionable solutions to pressing problems. Many of the people I work with are representatives, not of governments, but of ecosystems. Natural ecosystems have legal rights, and so are represented in court and policy by legal guardians, stewards that work to verbalize the interests of a non-verbal community. The personhood of these organisms, species, and populations is uncontested, making it easier to get to the work of establishing compromises between all parties involved. A new development might increase human flourishing, but its ecological costs are high. As a compromise, surveyors check out the land to see if there are parts that can be developed while maintaining ecosystem integrity. The development won’t be as big, and the ecosystem will sustain a bit of damage, but both parties will come out better in the long run. As an additional compromise, the development aims to cultivate the regional soil, fostering the native microbial communities to either restore a separate degraded ecosystem, or use as a substrate for a roof-top garden, to ensure that native plants can easily reestablish. Compromises are always hard, but if both parties have representation the result will be much fairer, and in the long run will confer numerous benefits to all involved.  Residents of the development, eager to offset the ecological footprint, will green and flower the balconies and apartments, setup bird and squirrel feeders to feed the displaced population (with the added benefit to plants surrounding the development through the excess nitrogen and phosphorous supplied by the grateful wildlife), and plant and tend to seedlings around the premises, restoring the community to its original strength. Nature is resilient but stochastic, and the right pieces must fall in place for a community to regain health. Humans come in by using the cultural knowledge of the land, developed over countless generations of native peoples, to implement best-practices to expedite Nature’s natural processes. With time, love, and care, a thriving ecosystem will grow once again, this time in concert with human activity.  <br/><br/>

As I finish my work I reflect on where we are, how far we have come. Countries worldwide have alleviated the suffering of their most-vulnerable citizens. Inequality has plummeted, equity has soared. Most people worldwide live a life as good as mine, as satisfied, as comfortable, as fulfilled. And with all this human progress we have simultaneously bolstered our natural ecosystems, creating protected and integrated environments where nature too can thrive. Our cities offer such rich habits and new niches for a flourishing of biodiversity, with distinct and varied ecosystems found everywhere along the urban-wildlife interface. Human change incorporates the natural world into its designs and provides the necessary resources and time to bring biodiversity along. The goods we can no longer use are recycled, revitalized, and transformed, the feedstock for another of our countless essential lifelines. Our communities and ecosystems are strong, resilient, and capable. Our disaster prevention and cleanup are aimed at restoring and protecting the whole ecosystem, and our mutual partnership with the rest of nature enables enhanced strength to meet whatever the future may hold. There is a recognition that we are in this together, our Spaceship Earth. We journey together, our brothers and sisters, children and elders, human and other, to face our shared destiny.  <br/><br/>
       
</details>

# War of the World
<details>
	<summary></summary>
	
  
We are fighting a war. Invisible, approaching, and worldwide. Hidden for some and blinding for others. This is not a war of any one nation, any one society, any one people. This is a war for our humanity, for our world. This war pervades our conversations, challenges our supply lines, and requires unprecedented mobilization. This war will require generals, lieutenants, admirals, and soldiers on the ground. It needs engineers, builders, technicians, and tinkerers. It’ll need truck drivers, electricians, plumbers, steel workers, miners, and police officers. Most importantly, it will need people. This war must be fought on all fronts, at home and abroad. We must ration, safeguard, and each do his or her part to fight for our country, our planet, our world.  <br/><br/>
        
This is a war without borders, without bounds, without a face. It is one without a language, without a people. Instead, we are all on one side, all fighting against a single enemy. The enemy threatens our livelihoods, our way of life, our continued existence. Rich or poor, black or white, young or old, we will all feel the effects.  <br/><br/>

&emsp; The enemy is climate change.  <br/><br/>

This might feel overblown, exaggerated, a big joke. But as I talk to my friends and family they tell me of 110-degree heat in the summer, a power failure in the middle of a winter blizzard, losing everything in a flood, hurricane, or wildfire, and, most recently, the heartbreak of lives lost and livelihoods ruined in the Kentucky tornadoes. I see forests razed into parking lots, and farmland turned into dust. Sure, all this happened before, but never quite so much and quite so often. The cause of all these events is murky, but the end result is clear: No other crisis in recent memory has threatened us so much, affected quite so many people, and required such massive mobilization on all fronts. We need engineers and technicians to develop tomorrow’s solutions, and industry to implement today’s. We need homeowners to encourage better construction and workers to build better projects. We need our parents to remember yesterday, and our children to imagine tomorrow. We need new technology, new strengths, new identities.  <br/><br/>
        
I want my dinner table to be a place of solutions, not shouting. Everyone, from grandparent to grandson should be a part of this conversation. I’m tired of this distrust of my fellow countryman, of the shouting matches that fill our media. Instead, I long for a time long passed when we could have a common goal, something that we could all fight for. And I believe this is that issue.  <br/><br/>
        
I want military strategists drawing up battle plans, contingencies and retaliations. Evacuation efforts, aid missions, striking while the iron is hot. I want preventative and offensive infrastructure; sea walls, fire-managed forests, irrigation canals, and crop relief. With that, we’ll need solar and wind farms, grid-scale batteries, and revitalized transportation. I want rations on goods I can survive without, a return to a simpler time when we didn’t all need the next best thing. I see this as my patriotic duty, to my nation and to my world. I want my kids to grow up in a better world than I did, with opportunities and securities I never had. Finally, I want help for those on the front lines: the men, women, and children gritting their teeth to face the oncoming storm.  <br/><br/>
        
We have to do this together, protecting one and protecting all. We cannot sacrifice some to save many, because the few may hold the solutions that turn the tide. Those of us that fall will never do so in vain: we will avenge our fallen soldiers, we will continue the fight, and we will push for a better tomorrow. With every step of the war we take great care, listening to all to ensure none get left behind.  <br/><br/>
	
This will require changing the way we think, act, do business, and talk among ourselves. As society restructures, we must do the same, looking inward at a time when everything pulls our attention out. Every step counts, and the only way to meet this challenge is with many. We cannot give in to infighting, for if we do, the enemy wins. We will not be able to mount effective mobilization, develop our defenses, and shore up our attack capabilities. The only way forward is with a unified front, a united federation to lead the way worldwide. No war can be won by falling amongst ourselves, for this war requires us all.  <br/><br/>
        
As with any war, we will lose some battles, some of us may fall behind. At times, we may think all is lost. Yet we must pick up the flag from our fallen soldiers and carry on, shouldering their burden as our own. This war can only be won by fighting hard, fighting true, and fighting through. Every battle won will gain a foothold, a new ground to assess the future and care for the past. We’ll use the knowledge of our two steps forward to stay strong on our one back. For with every battle fought we trudge on, seeing the future beyond the horizon.  <br/><br/>
	
There is no better cause to devote ourselves to then one that will safeguard the lives of ourselves, our children, and our people. Actions today will affect the future, but we will not forget our past. Together, we will come out the other side, better and stronger. This is not where humanity takes its last stand, for we will not die on this hill. We built this world, this land of perseverance, hardship, and opportunity. Coarse, challenging, and cooperative, this is the enterprise we’ve embarked upon. This world we inhabit as one.    <br/><br/>

A million tiny battles are fought each day, on all fronts, and across the world. There are winners and losers, false prophets and promises, good and evil. But now comes a fight that we must all join. A fight for our future, our past, and, most importantly, our present. An enemy we can join against, an ideal we can fight for. The path ahead is dark and full of terror. Yet the other side is a garden of Eden, a promised land that guides us through the darkness. If we do this, and we must, then we will create a better world. Let us stand together in this fight, together, for Earth.  <br/><br/>

</details>

# In Defense of Wild Suburbs
<details>
	<summary></summary>
		
A common argument against re-wilding public green spaces, such as those found at parks, in our backyards, and serving as natural barriers between our urban islands, is that mowed, kept, green spaces are better for kids and dogs.  <br/><br/>

However, this argument doesn’t hold up when analyzed closely. Dogs thrive on environmental smells, their primary means of understanding and exploring the environment. Yet mowed, public, greenspaces are largely lacking in the smells most interesting to dogs: the smells of nature, the countless pheromones of a rich, thriving community. Think of the joy we experience when smelling the sweet nectar of a honeysuckle or flowering bush. Dog’s experience the same joy but a hundred-fold, creating a rich tapestry of experience. If we create a community rich in smells (not present in the two or three species of plant and few species of insect that can eek out a living in our current lawns), our dog’s experience will magnify tenfold.  <br/><br/>

The same experience holds for children, who thrive on rich, exciting, and explorable terrains. Children love to hide, to explore, to climb. Sure, you can use a few hundred dollars to set up a volleyball net or some soccer goals, which will be used maybe a few times a month when the temperature isn’t scorching or freezing (as the lack of natural cover easily allows yards to heat up or cool down to dangerous temperatures), or you could allow children to do what they do best: create their own adventures. Children who experience the slight independence that climbing a tree, hiding under brush, or digging around in the dirt develop lifelong benefits, including experiencing fewer injuries as adults and developing the capacity to self-regulate their boredom or attention, a skill sorely needed today. In addition, the joy of finding the home of a neighborhood rabbit, squirrel, or roosting bird, or seeing warm, content pollinators buzzing in a beautiful summer day confers a lifelong love of the natural world, and a desire to protect those closest to us. <br/><br/> 

Another argument often cited against natural lawns is that of ticks or mosquitoes. However, such a problem is easily averted by having a can of bug-spray by the door, and encouraging children to be proactive in checking their legs and arms. With proper precautions, the risk of insect bites drops practically to zero, while simultaneously encouraging children to take aspects of their health into their own hands, fostering independence and self-care.  <br/><br/>

Thus, next time you bring out the lawnmower, consider leaving a small section free to grow. Watch it over the coming weeks, and if it’s not to your liking you can always mow it the next time around, but you might be surprised how much it can simultaneously grow the species-richness of your yard, while also creating the environment where your pets and children can thrive.  <br/><br/>

</details>


